in this lesson we're going to explore
the differences between the different
categories of cloud service
if we go and look at these skills
objectives what we're going to focus on
in this particular lesson
is describing
that shared responsibility model
but then also looking at describing
infrastructure as a service
platform as a service serverless
computing and software as a service so
we're going to hit five of those
assessed skills
in this particular video
now if you think about shared
responsibility
the idea here is that as the customer
there are certain things i am
responsible for and then as the provider
there are things microsoft and azure are
responsible for
now who is responsible for what
actually varies depending on what
service are we using
but it's definitely the idea that hey
there are different layers in any
particular service and maybe sometimes
i'm responsible sometimes microsoft are
responsible sometimes there's a mixture
of both of us
now the easiest way to think about this
is think about layers
and i can think about hey there's a
storage layer
i need to store stateful information
a networking layer connectivity
compute either servers
there's a hypervisor so in azure this is
built on hyper-v
and then a building block is a virtual
machine that that hypervisor exposes so
inside of that virtual machine some kind
of thing there's a vm here
there's an operating system that could
be windows that could be linux
i might have a runtime like java
enterprise edition or net
and then there's the application and the
data
and as an organization where is that
differentiation between my company
another company where's the innovation
that's going to set me apart
well it's
here it's the application of my data
that we really care about the most
most of this other stuff is just things
that have to be there for me to be able
to operate
but that's not really how i excel as a
company these things may be pain points
so i want to be as efficient as possible
to maybe reduce my operational costs but
what sets me apart from anyone else what
helps me be agile
is my applications is the data that i
have
now i can think about from a
responsibility perspective
if i think
premises
well who is responsible for this
it's me
it's the customer
the customer
is responsible for everything
now they may have different teams i
might have a storage team i might have a
hypervisor team
i have maybe a team that manages the
operating system out of a database team
but i am responsible for everything
identities in there as well everything
is my responsibility
when i start to look at cloud models the
first cloud we seem to see and this type
of service we're going to consume
is
infrastructure as a
service
iaas
this can
largely be thought of as a vm in the
cloud
now in this model if i think about the
physical fabric the storage the network
the compute and the hypervisor that sits
on top of that
all of that is the responsibility of the
cloud provider so i can
draw this line
for i as here
so the responsibility of all of those
things in this case i can say is azure's
responsibility
i am not worried about a physical server
i'm not worried about a certain disk i'm
not worried about networks which i'm not
worried about managing or patching a
hypervisor none of that is my problem
so that's all azure's responsibility
but because it's a vm in the cloud
everything
picking the operating system windows
linux what version what distribution
any runtimes i install my app my data
well that's all me
so that's the customer's responsibility
now that doesn't mean you're on your own
there are many things like extensions
and other services in azure to help you
when i think about operating systems
there's responsibilities i have to
perform i have to think about well
patching
i have to think about antivirus
i have to think about backup
i have to think about configuration
there are extensions and services to
help me with all of that so even though
it's my responsibility
it doesn't mean i'm on my own in terms
of tooling so there are things in azure
that can help me do all of that so yes
it's my responsibility
but hey azure's going to try and
help you out on a lot of those things
that can apply to other things up the
stack as well
but that's the key point that's
infrastructure as a service
now because of the responsibility of
everything inside the os and above is
mine
i have fantastic flexibility i can
pretty much do whatever i want
inside that operating system i have a
huge range of operating systems i can
pick i can configure it any way i want i
have direct access into that os so in
terms of flexibility
i have full access it's the most
flexible option
but
with that flexibility comes the most
responsibility
i am focusing on all of those different
layers and things like firewalling
there's all of those aspects i have to
think about
so as we move up the stack the next one
actually we do this a slightly different
color
is pads
platform
as a service
now there are different kind of shades
of pads and this will make a little bit
more sense later on
now there are likely still virtual
machines running
but i don't see them i'm not worrying
about them with pairs
the line of responsibility shifts all
the way up to here
so with pez
azure
my cloud provider
is now responsible for all of that
me as the customer
i only care about my app and my data
i don't worry about anything else now
there are still operating systems there
there are still run times there might be
middleware systems there
i am laser focused on my app on my data
what delivers the value to my company
now there's a lot of different options
in azure there's different types of pas
services
and that's why i talked about kind of
these kind of shades that we get in here
because there's things like hey i can
run azure kubernetes services to run
containers all the way up to app
services where i run some web-based
focus component
now my options are more limited so if
pairs
because my interaction is i'm deploying
my application but i do not have full
access to for example the operating
system
there's going to be specific operating
systems that are supported there are
going to be specific run times that are
supported there's going to be a specific
level of access i get to that operating
system am i going to get root access to
that os no
because now
microsoft and azure are responsible for
that so they can't have me just going in
and tinkering about however i want that
makes it very hard for them to manage
so i have less flexibility
but i have a lot less responsibility
and hopefully i don't need that
flexibility because there's a huge range
of services
within those services there's a lot of
different options so i pick the one
that matches the requirements of my
application for example in azure app
service i can pick windows or linux
i can pick hey do i want net
do i want different types of java
there's a whole bunch of different
runtimes i can select
so although sure
i am losing some flexibility there are a
lot of configuration and choices so i
can pick the one that is closest to what
i actually need
so if i think about from a type of
service perspective absolutely i as we
kind of start as a virtual machine
there are even things like virtual
machine scale sets where it creates and
deletes the vms based on
scaling options
then i can think about there's
containers so i can have individual
containers with azure container
instances
i can have full
kubernetes which is an orchestrator for
richer container environments but azure
is managing that kubernetes management
fabric then everything's about app
services
anything that's http https web-based
this could be hey it's an endpoint it
could be a website it could be a mobile
api that i want to access app services
are very rich for that
so i pick what do i need based on what i
want to do
now another type of pass service
and it still pass but you'll hear the
idea of serverless
so what does that mean
for all of these
types of servers i've mentioned there is
a vm building block underneath what i'm
paying for
is a certain type of virtual machine a
certain number of virtual machines that
i need for that service to run
with a serverless offering
there is no underlying unit of
infrastructure i see or pay for
i pay for the work that is done to
achieve the goal of that particular
function of that particular flow that it
needs to do
these are typically event driven so
event driven means something happens
that triggers this to run i'm writing
a file to a storage account like a blob
i'm writing a message to a queue
i'm calling a restful endpoint
there's something happening could even
be a scheduled event
something is happening that is going to
trigger so an event happens that's going
to trigger these serverless things to
run
and then i pay for the work that is done
the cpu cycles that are used and maybe
the amount of memory that is consumed
and this is really the gold standard if
i can get to here
we love the serverless there are
different types of offerings here there
are things like functions
which is actually part of app service
there are things like logic apps
logic apps are very good it's a
graphical flow that i can drag and drop
components hey someone post a twitter
message we'll go and call this maybe
cognitive service to get a sentiment is
it positive or negative and then go and
write out a message or send something
else so these are the serverless
offerings that i'm not paying even for
some unit or virtual machine that these
other pad offerings are still built on
and what i pay for
here i just pay for the work that's
actually done
and then at the far end of kind of this
this scale i'm going to use gold for
this one
is
sas
software as a service
now this is where the entire business
function is delivered
with all of these other offerings hey
it's delivering maybe a vm hey it's
delivering a run time and a unit i can
work on
with a sas solution it delivers the
actual business value because for ios
and pass it's given me something but i
have to still write my application to
deliver the business value
with sas it's delivering that
so this is not really an azure function
but this could be something like
microsoft 365.
dynamics 365 maybe using salesforce
those are sas solutions it's delivering
a business value
and you'll notice there on that line
what are you responsible for
nothing
you're not up if this was microsoft 365
are you upgrading exchange
no
that messaging service is just delivered
and it's maintained by the microsoft 365
team so software as a service is
delivering
the business function that we actually
care about it's delivering the app i'm
not worrying about the availability of
messaging servers i'm not worrying about
hey is my data backed up and replicated
that's part of the service
now as i think about this there might be
basic admin i do like enabling users
but it's just delivered for me
and so as i'm looking at what do i want
to use
what matters to your company
the business function
if i can use a sas service that exists
out there and does the job
fantastic i'm responsible for nothing
i'm just getting the business value
okay it doesn't exist i need to create
it if i'm writing something in my
architecture i want to use serverless as
much as possible maybe i'll use app
services
different types depending on the use
case
but i'm minimizing my responsibility to
again just be my app and my data the
things that deliver real value
maybe it's saying legacy i'm moving
something from an on-premises well then
hey i can use a virtual machine
because that makes sense for this unit
of work and maybe i just need to run it
on premises i still have those choices
but as much as possible i want to get as
far
to the right as possible if i can use
sas i want to use sas
if i can't hey i want to use paths and
then maybe i use i as maybe i still run
it on premises so those are the key
different types of cloud service we have